1.0 Partner overview 
Item Requirement Description 
1.1 
General 
1.1.1 
Company 
overview  
The MSP partner must provide a company overview including the following: 
● General profile of the company: History, structure, and competitive 
differentiators  
● Countries or regions served, sales offices, and support delivery 
offices for all Google Cloud Managed Services 
● Number of employees in the company and employees dedicated to 
the partner’s Google Cloud Managed Services 
● Industry focus and customer profile 
● Scale of managed services in relation to the partner's overall 
business, as a percentage of business volume and as a percentage 
of customer count 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a presentation that covers all the subjects above, 
and deliver a 15 minute review of it at the start of the 
assessment.  
x  
1.2  
Service 
offerings / core 
technical 
competencies 
1.2.1  
Managed 
service 
offerings 
Partners must provide details about their managed services value 
proposition including their managed services offerings, support team, and 
account management structure. 
 
Managed services value proposition 
● How the partner's support offering provides additional value over 
Google Cloud direct support  
 
Managed services offerings 
● Specifics of managed services offering(s) 
● Support offers and differences between them 
● What is supported or not supported within their support packages 
(spheres of support or management) 
 
Managed services support team 
● The structure of the partner’s managed services support team 
● A list of the key personnel in managed services, their level, locations, 
and confirmation of their full-time employee or external-vendor 
status 
 
Managed services account management structure 
● Managed services strategy as it is presented to customers 
● Technical account management / customer success strategy, 
including customer satisfaction, workload optimization, and 
continuous improvement 
● Additional managed services capabilities on Google Cloud, such as 
managed security or managed database services and any additional 
SLA’s offered 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 9 
 

 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
A presentation of not more than 30 minutes with an overview 
of the above mentioned subjects, which includes: 
● Documentation showing the lifecycle of a customer 
from lead to solution architecture & design, to 
deployment, potentially professional services to 
assist with migration or transformation followed by 
managed services, and finally decommission 
● Organizational structure of support teams, 
professional services teams, and account 
management teams 
● Documentation around additional managed offers 
beyond the platform 
  
1.2.2  
Core 
technical 
competencies 
Partner must describe the core technical competencies of the company, 
including but not limited to the following areas:  
1. Cloud migration 
2. Containerization  
3. Big data and analytics 
4. DevOps 
5. AI enabled experiences / generative AI 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
An overview presentation of capabilities of the company in 
each of these four core technical competencies: 
 
● If the partner has Cloud Migration - Services 
Specialization, there is no need to include cloud 
migration in the presentation 
● If the partner has Application Development - 
Services Specialization, there is no need to include 
DevOps in the presentation 
● If the partner has Data Analytics Specialization, there 
is no need to include big data and analytics in the 
presentation 
 
The presentation must include: 
 
● Documentation of customer case studies or other 
evidence of service delivery related to core technical 
competencies leveraging Google Cloud products 
● Documentation showing the partner's approach to 
onboarding of new and existing resources to develop 
core technical competencies 
x  
1.3  
Google Cloud 
business 
1.3.1  
Google 
business 
alignment 
 
To participate in the MSP Initiative, partners must have a dedicated Google 
Cloud Alliance Leader to develop a Joint Business Plan. The partner must be 
able to provide roles / individuals who will align with Google, at least:  
 
● Alliance Leader (dedicated to Google Cloud) 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 10 
 

 
 
● Technical Support Operations Leader 
● Sales Leader 
● Sales Operations 
● Executive Sponsor 
● Marketing 
● Engineering Leader 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Documentation with listed personnel including title, 
locations, contact information, and confirmation if these 
individuals are dedicated to the partner’s Google Cloud MSP 
practice, or shared with other practices / business units.  
x  
Present Google Cloud joint business plan covering the key 
business initiatives and the areas of focus to grow the 
partner's Google Cloud MSP business. 
x  
1.3.2  
Google Cloud 
Managed 
Services web 
presence 
Partner must have a web page dedicated to the Google Cloud Managed 
Services business practice area highlighting the technical capabilities and 
managed services offering. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide the URL for partner’s dedicated Google Cloud 
Managed Services business practice area web page and 
validate the content being displayed. 
x  
The dedicated Google Cloud MSP website must showcase at 
least two customer references of Google Cloud Managed 
Services provided to the customers on an on-going basis 
beyond initial cloud migrations or net-new cloud 
developments.  These references may direct to the partner’s 
Google Cloud Partner Directory profile or if the success 
story is otherwise hosted by Google, directly to the Google 
URL. 
x  
1.3.3  
Customer 
success 
Utilizing Google’s Partner Program portal, achieve at least 2 Service 
registrations having: 
  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
● Managed services in-scope with engagement details 
clearly articulated 
● Applicable GCP project number(s) noted 
● Product category: Google Cloud Platform 
  
1.3.4  
Customer 
retention 
Retaining customers is an essential task of a successful MSP practice.  It is in 
the continuous operation of a system where the opportunities to rearchitect 
it are observed and capitalized as cost reductions, allowing MSPs to turn 
their professional services wheel.   
 
Partner must be able to provide evidence of customers retained for longer 
than a year, and show how they handle and improve their customer 
retention. Partner also need to demonstrate steps are taken to mitigate 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 11 
 

 
 
churn risks, and when customer churn does occur, a cohesive process is 
followed to downgrade the customer securely. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide an example of one managed service 
customer support contract demonstrating that Google 
Cloud managed services have been provided for a duration 
of at least one continuous year. 
x  
Partner must present an established documented process or 
workflow describing how they respond, mitigate, and 
process customer churn events.  
  
1.4  
Resource 
management 
1.4.1  
Capacity 
planning 
process 
Partner must have a capacity planning process in place to ensure that 
appropriate staffing and resources are available for the provisioning of 
managed service offerings. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Description or records of capacity planning activities for the 
managed service practice, including resources for cloud 
enablement, migration planning, design and deployment, and 
service delivery operations. 
  
 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 12 
 

 
 
 
2.0 Operations and support 
Item Requirement Description 
2.1 Customer 
support model 
 
2.1.1 
Support 
model 
(24x7x365) 
Partner must have a 24x7x365 support model which provides customers the 
ability to request assistance in each of four priority levels: 
 
● P1 – Critical Impact Issues (such as service is unavailable, service is 
unusable across customer organization) 
● P2 – High Impact Issues (such as service performance is degraded, 
service available but producing significant error messages) 
● P3 – Medium Impact Issues (such as error messages generated but 
with no noticeable customer impact, questions about features 
used) 
● P4 – Low Impact Issues (such as questions about roadmap or 
development, feature requests) 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide process documentation on how priority levels are 
determined, applied, and have their SLA/SLO defined to 
respond within their support model. 
x  
Provide documentation defining managed services support 
team structure and model across all regions and offices.  This 
should include staffing strategy (onshore / offshore), 
headcount and location of personnel.  
x  
Provide staffing records or other documented evidence 
which demonstrates that each support tier is staffed with 
certified Full Time Employees (FTEs) to respond to support 
cases 24x7x365. 
x  
2.1.2  
Support 
personnel  
staffing and 
qualifications 
Partner must demonstrate that the support model is staffed by personnel 
with Google Cloud support / service expertise, including staff with Google 
Cloud certifications. Partner must maintain a team of at least 12 full-time 
employees carrying valid Professional Cloud Architect certification who are 
designated to presales and MSP on-going delivery activities, and who are 
accessible to manage Google Cloud customer escalations. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide valid  Professional Cloud Architect 
certification records for at least 12 full-time employees 
(FTEs) currently working within the partner's MSP practice. 
● This certified personnel must be employed by the 
entity being assessed as an FTE. 
● If the certified personnel are hired through a 
fully-owned subsidiary or a parent entity, the partner 
must add documentation demonstrating the 
relationship between the entities. 
● Temp-, Intern-, Vendor-, or any other status different 
from full-time employee are not valid for the 
purpose of this control. 
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 13 
 

 
 
Documented confirmation that these individuals are 
accessible as escalation points when required by the 
partner's MSP support practice for Google Cloud. 
x  
Documented plan to provide Google Cloud education for 
existing team members and for the onboarding of new team 
members, as well as the path to obtain and maintain 
on-going Google Cloud certification. 
  
2.1.3  
Support tiers 
Partner must offer tiered support (such as Tier 1, 2, 3; or flexible/ 
customizable tiers) that clients can subscribe to for each of four priority 
levels (P1-P4 as defined in 2.1.1).  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide customer-facing documentation describing how 
each of the support tiers are mapped to each priority level 
(P1-P4). 
  
Provide customer-facing documentation describing their 
support hours. 
  
Provide customer-facing documentation with expected 
SLA/SLOs for each priority level. 
x  
Provide customer-facing documentation explaining how to 
reach out for support. 
  
2.1.4  
Post- 
migration 
hand-off to 
support 
services 
Workload assessment, design, and migration are part of the customer’s 
cloud journey. The MSP partner must provide a process documenting 
transition for assessment, design, migration, or deployment to managed 
services for ongoing support and management. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation showing the hand-off process used 
to transfer the ownership of two customer solutions 
delivered in the last 24 months, from the Professional 
Services or Consulting team to the Managed Services 
Technical Support team. The process must include 
documentation of the design or migration phases of the 
solution, and the support plan going forward. 
x  
2.2 
Logging and 
retention  
  
2.2.1  
Event logging 
Partner must have tools / technologies (such as Google Cloud operations 
suite (formerly Stackdriver) and Cloud Logging, to enable logging of events 
at the infrastructure and/or application layers. Partner may rely on Google 
tools, but should provide their approach to default policies and retention 
across Google services, which they configure and respond to for their 
managed services customers. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide evidence of event-logging capabilities, including the 
collection of logs from servers, containers, network devices, 
and storage systems (Infrastructure logging) OR the 
collection of logs from databases, application servers, and/or 
SaaS solutions (application logging). This evidence must 
show the storage of these events in a collection system or 
database, and the correlation of multiple log entries coming 
from single events.    
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 14 
 

 
 
Provide workflow documentation regarding how events 
captured cause actions, such as auto-remediation or 
generation of case reports to be supported by the partner 
manually. 
  
2.2.2  
Retention 
policy 
Partner must have a log retention policy, and a process for ensuring 
compliance to the policy.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide an established documented log retention policy and 
records of compliance. 
x  
Provide documentation of retention policy for infrastructure 
layer logging and value-added application layer logging. 
x  
2.2.3  
Log access 
Partner must make logs accessible to the customer. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstrate logs are provided to customers including 
details of the methods to provide this access. 
  
2.2.4  
Log data 
mining  
Partner must mine the log collections to perform root cause analysis and 
process optimization. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide records of data analysis activities and examples of 
recommendations for improvement based on these 
activities. 
  
2.3  
Ticketing 
system 
2.3.1  
Ticketing tool 
Partner must have a ticketing system, developed in-house or leveraging  
third-party tools, to receive, track, and log service requests.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Technology demonstration highlighting the partner's  
ticketing system which at a minimum must include: 
● Products and tools used for receiving, tracking, and 
logging service requests 
● Ability of the support desk personnel to access the 
list of previous service requests of a customer for 
correlation purposes   
● A capability must be present to keep logs and audit 
trail of tasks that MSP personnel are requested to 
implement. These may be in the form of 
customer-approved change orders or closed service 
requests, and could be present only for a subset of 
customers who may have stronger operational 
requirements 
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 The demonstration showed that the ticketing system can interact 
with the partner's CMDB so that change requests that will affect 
configuration will generate auditable approval workflows. 
 The demonstration included a capability for the customer to track 
their invoicing and the telemetry data of their systems under 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 15 
 

 
 
management, using ITSM ticketing tool integrations (i.e.,  
customer-side ticketing system can remotely trigger a request for 
log collection, monitoring, or billing data). 
2.3.2  
Case/request 
handling 
Partner must have a process for receiving, acknowledging, and recording 
customer requests in accordance with service level objectives.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstration of how support/service requests are received 
(such as via call center, service desk, email, messaging, chat), 
acknowledged (for example, via call back, if in SLA scope) 
and logged/time stamped. 
  
2.3.3  
Case/request 
prioritization 
Partner must prioritize and manage requests according to the mapping of 
priority in accordance with their tiered support model referenced in section 
2.1.3.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Examples of prioritized requests, i.e., in the ticketing system.   
2.3.4  
Case 
escalation 
Partner must have a process for escalation of cases, including escalation to 
Google Cloud Support when appropriate. Partner must have an internal 
escalation process describing how the various teams within the Google 
Cloud practice area will escalate a technical issue internally before opening a 
case with Google. For example, Partner Technical Support Level 1 Engineer 
escalates internally to Partner Technical Support Level 2, 3, or 4 and then 
opens Google Support case, or Professional Services Engineer escalates an 
internal partner case for assistance to Partner Technical Support before 
opening a case to Google). 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a documented escalation process, and at least one 
example of the process executed in the last 12 months. 
x  
Provide the documentation for the defined internal process 
to escalate within the partner's own internal teams. 
  
Provide the documentation for the defined internal process 
to escalate to Google Cloud Support. 
  
Provide an example of the information that is available to 
customers on how to escalate cases opened with the 
partner. 
  
2.3.5  
Case/request 
resolution 
Partner must have processes defining resolution of customer cases, 
including, for example, how bug and feature requests are handled, how 
service unavailability is handled.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide records of case status and resolution.   
Provide process documentation regarding how the MSP 
team handles case resolution. 
  
2.3.6  
Time of 
response/ 
resolution 
Partner must track case response and resolution time at each priority level 
for each tier of support. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Documentation showing at least six months aggregate  x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 16 
 

 
 
tracking of cases showing the partner's Mean Time to 
Response metric. 
Describe actions taken in response to these metrics.   
 
  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 The evidence showed that the partner also tracks Mean Time to 
Resolution of cases and acts upon the results of these metrics. 
2.3.7 
Customer 
verification  
Partner must have processes allowing customers to verify the successful 
resolution of cases and requests. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide records of customer verification of case resolution. 
 
x  
2.4 
Incident 
management 
  
2.4.1  
Incident 
management 
process 
Partner must have a process in place for identifying and recording 
service-impacting incidents.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a documented process for incident management, 
including how service-impacting incidents are filtered from 
all recorded events. 
x  
2.4.2  
Incident 
management 
records 
Partner must maintain records of identified incidents. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Include examples of identified incidents, including examples 
where incident information was communicated to customers. 
x  
2.5  
Problem 
management 
2.5.1  
Problem 
management 
process 
Partner must have a process in place for identifying and recording problems, 
including those resulting from incidents with no known cause or due to 
proactive monitoring or data analysis.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a documented process for problem management 
and examples of problem records. 
x  
2.5.2 Problem 
management 
records 
Partner must maintain records of problem management activities.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide examples of problem management, including 
identification, logging, analysis, and entry into a Known Errors 
Database (KEDB). 
x  
2.6  
Asset 
management 
  
2.6.1  
Asset 
management 
strategy and 
records 
Partner must have a strategy for tracking and managing deployed Google 
Cloud assets beyond the Google Cloud Console, and must maintain records 
of deployed assets. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
A technology demonstration of how the partner tracks and 
manages deployed Google Cloud assets. 
x  
Provide documentation that demonstrates a clear 
deployment strategy for their managed services customers. 
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 17 
 

 
 
Provide documentation or a technology demonstration 
showing how the partner keeps record of the assets that are 
deployed. 
  
2.7  
Configuration 
and change 
management 
2.7.1  
Configuration 
and change 
management 
processes 
Partner must have processes in place for configuration and change 
management.  This may include: 
 
● Management of server images  
● Configuration of instances (at launch / while active) 
● Application of patches and upgrades  
● Configuration of security groups and firewalls 
● Versioning / change rollback 
 
Functions in this area  include but are not limited to creating, versioning, and 
maintaining a library of server images and configuration files, keeping a 
history of changes to configuration, testing changes and upgrades before 
applying them, applying patches and upgrades to production instances, and 
rolling back changes to configuration files if necessary. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Include a technology demonstration, including examples of 
the above activities.   
  
Provide a documented change management process.   
2.8  
Release and 
deployment 
management 
2.8.1  
Release and 
deployment 
management 
processes 
Partner must have processes in place for release and deployment of 
applications / workloads.  These processes may include but are not limited to: 
 
The release and deployment management process should determine the 
release scope, identify stakeholders, and create a release plan. The process 
should include a testing phase in a staging environment to ensure that the 
application or workload is working as expected. The deployment process 
should deploy the application or workload to production and initiate 
monitoring in production to ensure that it is performing as expected. There 
should be a rollback process to revert to a previous version if necessary. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide established documented processes for release and 
deployment management, including a technology 
demonstration of tools used. 
  
2.8.2  
Deployment 
tooling 
As part of the release and deployment process, the partner must utilize 
self-service tooling or managed CI/CD (Continuous Integration / Continuous 
Delivery) pipelines for application and infrastructure deployment and to  
decrease deployment times, improve reliability, and reduce customer 
deployment costs through automation.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation or a technology demonstration of the 
self-service tooling and/or managed CI/CD pipelines 
application/infrastructure deployment of the partner's 
customers. The partner must demonstrate or present the 
  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 18 
 

 
 
process and tooling for self-service or automated CI/CD 
pipelines in place for deployment.  
2.9  
Access 
management 
2.9.1  
Partner access 
to customer 
infrastructure 
Partner is expected to actively manage customer workloads and must 
provide documentation on how they achieve required access to the 
customer's infrastructure.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation on how access is achieved. x  
Provide definitions on what level of access is achieved. x  
Provide documentation on time limitations configured. x  
2.9.2  
Customer 
access to 
Google Cloud 
Partner must define the level of Google Cloud access provided to customers 
if workloads are within the partner’s organization or otherwise. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation of the identity and access 
management (IAM) policy and processes used to enable 
customer access to Google Cloud 
x  
Demonstrate the tooling provided for directory integration, 
user management, and access management 
x  
2.10  
Service level 
agreements  
2.10.1  
Support SLAs 
Partner must provide support SLAs to customers specific to Google Cloud 
services and products and additional SLAs specific to the partner's core 
technical competency.  
 
Advanced capabilities in this area are shown by partners who provide 
application-level or business-outcome SLAs to customers,   
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstrate that support SLAs specific to Google Cloud 
Managed Services are provided to customers in the form of 
signed documentation evidence in customer contracts. 
x  
Provide documentation on additional SLAs offered for 
partner specific competencies provided to customers. 
  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
  
 Partner offers application-level SLAs to customers. 
 Partner offers business-outcome SLAs based on customer-specific 
application or system requirements. 
 
2.11  
Reporting 
2.11.1  
Performance 
analysis 
reporting 
 
Partner should provide performance analysis reporting to customers. This 
type of reporting identifies areas where the customer may be able to 
improve efficiency or where performance may be degraded. Includes a 
summary of the new alerts and notifications for detected or documented 
performance issues with customer applications or infrastructure over the last 
reporting period.  
 
These reports can be used to identify trends in performance and to make 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 19 
 

 
 
predictions about future performance requirements. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide example Performance Analysis Reports 
provided to customers, including tools and sources used, and 
metrics gathered.  
x  
2.11.2  
Asset/usage 
reporting 
Partner should provide asset/usage reporting to customers with data such as 
number of assets in use, the amount of storage space, and the amount of 
network traffic being generated, and qualitative information such as areas 
where performance may be degraded, calls-to-action to improve 
performance by upgrading the deployed resources or optimizing 
applications, security risks associated with assets, etc.   
 
This information can be used to track the usage of assets, identify 
underutilized assets, and make decisions about future capacity planning.   
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide examples of the Asset Usage Reports 
provided to customers, including tools and sources used, and 
metrics gathered.  The examples must include asset use 
improvement recommendations. 
x  
2.11.3  
Cost reporting 
Partner must provide cost reporting to customers. These reports should 
facilitate for the customer to understand their total cost of Google Cloud 
usage, the cost of individual services, and the cost of specific resources.  The 
reports should highlight potential cost savings associated with changes to 
resource usage, identify underutilized resources, and provide 
recommendations for improving cost-efficiency. 
 
This information can be used to track costs, identify areas where costs may 
be excessive, and make decisions about future cost-savings initiatives. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide examples of the Cost Reports provided 
to customers (can be anonymized), including tools and 
sources used, and metrics gathered.  The examples must  
include cost-effectiveness improvement recommendations. 
x  
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 20 
 

 
 
 