

 
 
 
Managed Service 
Provider (MSP) 
 
Initiative Requirements 
 
Capabilities Assessment Checklist v4.2  
 
Updated: September 2025 
 
 
 
 
For more information visit cloud.google.com/partners/msp-initiative 
 
1 

 
 
 
 
Confidentiality Notice  
 
You are receiving this document because you've been identified as a qualified prospective partner to 
the Google Cloud Managed Service Provider  (MSP) Initiative. As explained in the letter accompanying 
this document, the initiative allows you to pursue third-party validated assessment on your Managed 
Services for Google Cloud practice.   
 
As a qualified prospect, you are invited to review this document and use it in preparation for your MSP 
Capabilities Assessment. We hope that this checklist sparks your creativity on what can be achieved in 
the immense cloud MSP opportunity and how Google Cloud can help you achieve that.  
 
We would like to remind you that you are bound by confidentiality terms with Google, under which this 
checklist is being shared. Please consider this document confidential, internal-only, and need-to-know 
inside your organization; Any unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this document may be considered a 
breach of those confidentiality terms.  Any recipients of this document must be made explicitly aware  
of our mutual confidentiality obligations. 
 
If you received this document by mistake, please notify the sender immediately and delete the 
document from all storage locations. Thank you for your cooperation in keeping this information 
confidential. 
 
 
 
 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 2 
 

 
 
 
Confidentiality Notice 2
 
Introduction 4
 
Partner assessment process 5
 
Assessment scheduling 6
 
Process and Controls Overview 6
 
New-Cycle Assessment duration and agenda 6
 
Renewal Assessment Scope 6
 
Initiative requirements assessment checklist 7
 
1.0 Partner overview 9
 
2.0 Operations and support 13
 
3.0 Cloud management platform 21
 
4.0 Google Cloud product technical knowledge 26
 
5.0 Security 30
 
6.0 Assessment, design, and migration 34
 
7.0 Customer Success, optimization, satisfaction, and improvement 37
 
Appendix 1: Adding Affiliates and Regional Expansions 41
 
Affiliated Partner 41
 
Regional expansion 41
 
Partner assessment types 41
 
Affiliated Partner - Full Assessment 41
 
Affiliated Partner - Partial Assessment 41
 
Regional Validation Assessment 42
 
 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 3 
 

 
 
MSP Initiative Requirements 
Capabilities Assessment Checklist v4.2 (September 2025) 
___ 
Introduction 
The Managed Service Provider (“MSP”) Initiative is geared toward Premier Level partners authorized in 
the Google Cloud Partner Advantage Sell or Service Engagement Models that deliver managed 
application and support services to Google Cloud customers. 
This document defines the requirements for entry and continuous participation in the Google Cloud 
Managed Service Provider (MSP) Initiative. 
 
Google Cloud MSP partners are expected to be able to provide customers with: 
 
● Full featured managed services technical support operations 
Partners participating in the MSP Initiative offer customers consulting and support services that 
enable a smooth onboarding into Google Cloud technologies, on-going optimization and 
support services to help establish processes and operations, and well-defined service level 
agreements (SLAs) based on business requirements. MSP partners help ensure agreed upon 
uptime compliance for mission-critical assets. Such key capabilities include: 
○ Ability to deliver managed services 24/7/365 technical support through documented 
standards and procedures 
○ Certified technical support engineers able to solve complex issues and escalations 
○ Quick-response  enterprise-grade SLAs  
 
● Deep cloud expertise 
MSP partners have certified Google Cloud Professionals who can conduct application and 
infrastructure assessments to migrate customers to Google Cloud technologies and support the 
design of new cloud-native solutions using containers and serverless technologies while 
operating an automated monitoring and operations platform.  
○ Managed services through cloud-native tooling integrations and automation 
○ Google Cloud certified personnel across functions such as support delivery practice, 
consulting delivery practice, and presales 
○ Cloud consultation services including migrations, cloud transformations, and managed 
services 
 
● Day-2 Managed Services: manage, monitor, remediate, optimize 
Partners participating in the MSP Initiative can provide a full customer lifecycle of services 
including the planning and design of new cloud infrastructure architectures, building or 
migrating business solutions in an agile DevOps process with the customer, and running 
day-to-day operations and optimization of an ever-growing number of cloud-based workloads. 
○ Managed services solution providing proactive monitoring and alerting 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 4 
 

 
 
○ Workload management and automation 
○ Proactive optimization reporting and execution on behalf of the customer 
○ Managed services beyond the infrastructure and into the application layer 
○ All additional and applicable Day-2 DevOps services 
○ Additional value-added services such as managed security  
 
● Cloud management and automation platform 
MSP partners operate an automated cloud management platform (CMP) that is well integrated 
with Google Cloud components.  This platform usually comprises MSP-developed tools for 
operations and deployments, along with best-in-class third-party discovery, monitoring, and 
security applications. The CMP enables visibility, simplifies management, optimizes utilization, 
and provides resource management in the cloud environment. 
o CMP solution enabling customers to optimize and manage their cloud infrastructure for 
cost, security, and operations 
o State-of-the-art cloud-native tooling and services enabling infrastructure and 
application lifecycle management including, but not limited to Terraform, Jenkins, Git, 
Puppet, Chef, K8s, etc. 
o Customer accessible ticketing system capable of tiering and escalation paths 
o Managed services tools and solutions, including a configuration management database 
(CMDB) which enables functionality for component governance and tracking, as well as 
tracking of configuration changes across managed cloud assets 
 
To qualify for the MSP Initiative, a partner must: 
■ Satisfy MSP Initiative prerequisites; These are documented in the Google Cloud MSP Initiative 
Guide which is provided to partners in their invitation email to the MSP Initiative.    
■ Receive an invitation to the MSP Initiative based upon requirements being met; 
■ Complete an assessment with a Google designated third-party assessment firm; and  
■ Receive a “Pass” decision on the assessment from the Google Cloud MSP Initiative team 
 
Upon certification as a Google Cloud MSP, the partner will receive additional benefits outlined in the 
Google Cloud MSP Initiative Guide. 
 
A complete set of Google Cloud MSP Initiative prerequisites are available in the Google Cloud MSP 
Initiative Guide. 
 
Partner assessment process 
Google requires that systems, processes, and employees that service the MSP practice area and its 
customers be evaluated through third-party assessments. Partners will be assessed ahead of initial 
activation into the MSP Initiative, then annually for performance over the previous year to confirm 
continued eligibility to participate. Partners must submit to a New-Cycle MSP Assessment prior to initial 
activation in the MSP Initiative. Participants in the MSP Initiative will then undergo Renewal Assessments 
on the second and third anniversaries of their participation to confirm continued eligibility to participate. 
Ahead of the fourth year of the cycle, the partner will submit again to a New-Cycle MSP Assessment and 
the sequence of one New-Cycle and two Renewal Assessments will continue for the duration of the 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 5 
 

 
 
partner's participation. Assessments must be completed by the anniversary date of the previous 
assessment. 
Assessment scheduling 
As a general guideline, an assessment will not be scheduled until the partner has submitted a complete 
application and Google has verified that the MSP Initiative prerequisites have been met. Once 
prerequisites have been validated, partner contact information will be provided to the third-party 
assessment firm (referred to in this document as the “Assessor”) for scheduling the assessment. The 
partner should include the leadership team responsible for their Managed Services Technical Support 
and Operations. 
 
Process and Controls Overview 
Partners may opt to have a Process and Controls Overview ahead of the assessment. This session is 
intended to provide the partner with additional preparation for the assessment. The duration is 4-6 
hours, and the deliverable is a written report detailing best practices for the New-Cycle Assessment or 
the Renewal Assessment. A Process and Controls Overview is strongly recommended. 
 
New-Cycle Assessment duration and agenda 
Partners should plan on two full days for the assessment. A sample itinerary is below:  
Day 1 Assessment agenda items Time 
Introductions and review of assessment agenda and methodology 9:00-9:15 
Partner overview 9:15-10:45 
Operations and support 11:00-12:30 
Cloud management platform 13:00-14:00 
Google Cloud product technical knowledge 14:00-16:00 
 
Day 2 Assessment agenda items Time 
Google Cloud product technical knowledge (cont. if needed) 
Security 9:00-11:00 
Assessment, design, and migration 11:00-12:30 
Optimization, customer satisfaction, and improvement 13:00-14:30 
Assessor review and preparation for closing meeting   14:30-15:00 
Closing meeting 15:00-16:00 
 
Renewal Assessment Scope 
 
Partner will receive notification from the Google Cloud MSP Initiative team for the upcoming Renewal 
Assessment and due date. Partner contact information will be provided to the Assessor upon 
confirmation of the interest of the partner to continue participating in the MSP Initiative.  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 6 
 

 
 
 
- The Assessor will be looking for changes in the partner practice since the time of the last 
assessment. This includes general improvements, any major organization structure changes, and 
checking against any new controls in the then-current version of the MSP Capabilities 
Requirements. 
- During a Renewal Assessment, the Assessor will require the partner to present evidence for all  
the controls that are marked in the column “R” in the checklist. If there are any major changes in 
other areas of the partner practice, the partner must inform the Assessor and have evidence 
ready to present their capabilities for those additional controls.  
 
Please note that the assessment checklist is designed to iterate over time with additional controls added, 
therefore any Renewal Assessments will almost certainly include some net-new controls to be met. MSP 
partners are advised to utilize the Process and Controls Overview engagement to prepare for such 
changes. 
 
Partners should plan on one full day for the Renewal Assessment in the two years following their initial 
activation.  Every third year of the partner's participation in the initiative, the partner must undergo a 
New-Cycle Assessment over two full days.  
 
Initiative requirements assessment checklist 
In preparation for the assessment, it is recommended that partners use the checklist below to 
self-assess compliance with each of the requirements using the Met (Y/N) column.  
 
Each control in the checklist consists of: 
 
1. A high-level explanation of the capabilities expected in the specific function of your practice 
area.  
2. A list of Required Evidence controls which define the minimum viable product a Google Cloud 
MSP partner must offer to their customers.  
3. A column titled “R” accompanying the Required Evidence controls, which indicates with an “X”, 
the list of required controls if this checklist is being used for a mid-term Renewal Assessment.  
4. Some controls in the checklist include additional evidence titled Voluntary Advanced 
Capabilities Declaration. These capabilities are exhibited by select MSP partners who use 
technology solutions for automation, integration with customer's ITSM tools, and comprehensive 
cloud management platforms.  As of the current version of the Checklist, these are not 
compulsory requirements to participate in the MSP Initiative.  They are offered here as an 
opportunity for the partner to demonstrate these advanced capabilities, and might become 
standard requirements in future versions of the Checklist.        
 
Where there is a requirement to show customer records, or examples of implementations and 
migrations, these must be no older than two years, from the date of the assessment. 
 
Assessment findings and follow up 
At the New-Cycle or Renewal Assessment closing meeting, the Assessor will present a brief synopsis of 
the results. Opportunities for improvement will also be presented.  
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 7 
 

 
 
The Assessor will send a summary report to the partner with any open action items. If there are any open 
action items, the partner will be given an opportunity to provide written evidence of closure to the 
Assessor within five business days after the assessment  summary report is delivered. After five business 
days have passed, the Assessor will forward a final report to the Google Cloud MSP Initiative team. 
 
The Google Cloud MSP Initiative team will make a decision and inform the partner regarding admittance 
to the Initiative. 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 8 
 

 
 
 
1.0 Partner overview 
Item Requirement Description 
1.1 
General 
1.1.1 
Company 
overview  
The MSP partner must provide a company overview including the following: 
● General profile of the company: History, structure, and competitive 
differentiators  
● Countries or regions served, sales offices, and support delivery 
offices for all Google Cloud Managed Services 
● Number of employees in the company and employees dedicated to 
the partner’s Google Cloud Managed Services 
● Industry focus and customer profile 
● Scale of managed services in relation to the partner's overall 
business, as a percentage of business volume and as a percentage 
of customer count 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a presentation that covers all the subjects above, 
and deliver a 15 minute review of it at the start of the 
assessment.  
x  
1.2  
Service 
offerings / core 
technical 
competencies 
1.2.1  
Managed 
service 
offerings 
Partners must provide details about their managed services value 
proposition including their managed services offerings, support team, and 
account management structure. 
 
Managed services value proposition 
● How the partner's support offering provides additional value over 
Google Cloud direct support  
 
Managed services offerings 
● Specifics of managed services offering(s) 
● Support offers and differences between them 
● What is supported or not supported within their support packages 
(spheres of support or management) 
 
Managed services support team 
● The structure of the partner’s managed services support team 
● A list of the key personnel in managed services, their level, locations, 
and confirmation of their full-time employee or external-vendor 
status 
 
Managed services account management structure 
● Managed services strategy as it is presented to customers 
● Technical account management / customer success strategy, 
including customer satisfaction, workload optimization, and 
continuous improvement 
● Additional managed services capabilities on Google Cloud, such as 
managed security or managed database services and any additional 
SLA’s offered 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 9 
 

 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
A presentation of not more than 30 minutes with an overview 
of the above mentioned subjects, which includes: 
● Documentation showing the lifecycle of a customer 
from lead to solution architecture & design, to 
deployment, potentially professional services to 
assist with migration or transformation followed by 
managed services, and finally decommission 
● Organizational structure of support teams, 
professional services teams, and account 
management teams 
● Documentation around additional managed offers 
beyond the platform 
  
1.2.2  
Core 
technical 
competencies 
Partner must describe the core technical competencies of the company, 
including but not limited to the following areas:  
1. Cloud migration 
2. Containerization  
3. Big data and analytics 
4. DevOps 
5. AI enabled experiences / generative AI 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
An overview presentation of capabilities of the company in 
each of these four core technical competencies: 
 
● If the partner has Cloud Migration - Services 
Specialization, there is no need to include cloud 
migration in the presentation 
● If the partner has Application Development - 
Services Specialization, there is no need to include 
DevOps in the presentation 
● If the partner has Data Analytics Specialization, there 
is no need to include big data and analytics in the 
presentation 
 
The presentation must include: 
 
● Documentation of customer case studies or other 
evidence of service delivery related to core technical 
competencies leveraging Google Cloud products 
● Documentation showing the partner's approach to 
onboarding of new and existing resources to develop 
core technical competencies 
x  
1.3  
Google Cloud 
business 
1.3.1  
Google 
business 
alignment 
 
To participate in the MSP Initiative, partners must have a dedicated Google 
Cloud Alliance Leader to develop a Joint Business Plan. The partner must be 
able to provide roles / individuals who will align with Google, at least:  
 
● Alliance Leader (dedicated to Google Cloud) 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 10 
 

 
 
● Technical Support Operations Leader 
● Sales Leader 
● Sales Operations 
● Executive Sponsor 
● Marketing 
● Engineering Leader 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Documentation with listed personnel including title, 
locations, contact information, and confirmation if these 
individuals are dedicated to the partner’s Google Cloud MSP 
practice, or shared with other practices / business units.  
x  
Present Google Cloud joint business plan covering the key 
business initiatives and the areas of focus to grow the 
partner's Google Cloud MSP business. 
x  
1.3.2  
Google Cloud 
Managed 
Services web 
presence 
Partner must have a web page dedicated to the Google Cloud Managed 
Services business practice area highlighting the technical capabilities and 
managed services offering. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide the URL for partner’s dedicated Google Cloud 
Managed Services business practice area web page and 
validate the content being displayed. 
x  
The dedicated Google Cloud MSP website must showcase at 
least two customer references of Google Cloud Managed 
Services provided to the customers on an on-going basis 
beyond initial cloud migrations or net-new cloud 
developments.  These references may direct to the partner’s 
Google Cloud Partner Directory profile or if the success 
story is otherwise hosted by Google, directly to the Google 
URL. 
x  
1.3.3  
Customer 
success 
Utilizing Google’s Partner Program portal, achieve at least 2 Service 
registrations having: 
  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
● Managed services in-scope with engagement details 
clearly articulated 
● Applicable GCP project number(s) noted 
● Product category: Google Cloud Platform 
  
1.3.4  
Customer 
retention 
Retaining customers is an essential task of a successful MSP practice.  It is in 
the continuous operation of a system where the opportunities to rearchitect 
it are observed and capitalized as cost reductions, allowing MSPs to turn 
their professional services wheel.   
 
Partner must be able to provide evidence of customers retained for longer 
than a year, and show how they handle and improve their customer 
retention. Partner also need to demonstrate steps are taken to mitigate 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 11 
 

 
 
churn risks, and when customer churn does occur, a cohesive process is 
followed to downgrade the customer securely. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide an example of one managed service 
customer support contract demonstrating that Google 
Cloud managed services have been provided for a duration 
of at least one continuous year. 
x  
Partner must present an established documented process or 
workflow describing how they respond, mitigate, and 
process customer churn events.  
  
1.4  
Resource 
management 
1.4.1  
Capacity 
planning 
process 
Partner must have a capacity planning process in place to ensure that 
appropriate staffing and resources are available for the provisioning of 
managed service offerings. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Description or records of capacity planning activities for the 
managed service practice, including resources for cloud 
enablement, migration planning, design and deployment, and 
service delivery operations. 
  
 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 12 
 

 
 
 
2.0 Operations and support 
Item Requirement Description 
2.1 Customer 
support model 
 
2.1.1 
Support 
model 
(24x7x365) 
Partner must have a 24x7x365 support model which provides customers the 
ability to request assistance in each of four priority levels: 
 
● P1 – Critical Impact Issues (such as service is unavailable, service is 
unusable across customer organization) 
● P2 – High Impact Issues (such as service performance is degraded, 
service available but producing significant error messages) 
● P3 – Medium Impact Issues (such as error messages generated but 
with no noticeable customer impact, questions about features 
used) 
● P4 – Low Impact Issues (such as questions about roadmap or 
development, feature requests) 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide process documentation on how priority levels are 
determined, applied, and have their SLA/SLO defined to 
respond within their support model. 
x  
Provide documentation defining managed services support 
team structure and model across all regions and offices.  This 
should include staffing strategy (onshore / offshore), 
headcount and location of personnel.  
x  
Provide staffing records or other documented evidence 
which demonstrates that each support tier is staffed with 
certified Full Time Employees (FTEs) to respond to support 
cases 24x7x365. 
x  
2.1.2  
Support 
personnel  
staffing and 
qualifications 
Partner must demonstrate that the support model is staffed by personnel 
with Google Cloud support / service expertise, including staff with Google 
Cloud certifications. Partner must maintain a team of at least 12 full-time 
employees carrying valid Professional Cloud Architect certification who are 
designated to presales and MSP on-going delivery activities, and who are 
accessible to manage Google Cloud customer escalations. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide valid  Professional Cloud Architect 
certification records for at least 12 full-time employees 
(FTEs) currently working within the partner's MSP practice. 
● This certified personnel must be employed by the 
entity being assessed as an FTE. 
● If the certified personnel are hired through a 
fully-owned subsidiary or a parent entity, the partner 
must add documentation demonstrating the 
relationship between the entities. 
● Temp-, Intern-, Vendor-, or any other status different 
from full-time employee are not valid for the 
purpose of this control. 
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 13 
 

 
 
Documented confirmation that these individuals are 
accessible as escalation points when required by the 
partner's MSP support practice for Google Cloud. 
x  
Documented plan to provide Google Cloud education for 
existing team members and for the onboarding of new team 
members, as well as the path to obtain and maintain 
on-going Google Cloud certification. 
  
2.1.3  
Support tiers 
Partner must offer tiered support (such as Tier 1, 2, 3; or flexible/ 
customizable tiers) that clients can subscribe to for each of four priority 
levels (P1-P4 as defined in 2.1.1).  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide customer-facing documentation describing how 
each of the support tiers are mapped to each priority level 
(P1-P4). 
  
Provide customer-facing documentation describing their 
support hours. 
  
Provide customer-facing documentation with expected 
SLA/SLOs for each priority level. 
x  
Provide customer-facing documentation explaining how to 
reach out for support. 
  
2.1.4  
Post- 
migration 
hand-off to 
support 
services 
Workload assessment, design, and migration are part of the customer’s 
cloud journey. The MSP partner must provide a process documenting 
transition for assessment, design, migration, or deployment to managed 
services for ongoing support and management. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation showing the hand-off process used 
to transfer the ownership of two customer solutions 
delivered in the last 24 months, from the Professional 
Services or Consulting team to the Managed Services 
Technical Support team. The process must include 
documentation of the design or migration phases of the 
solution, and the support plan going forward. 
x  
2.2 
Logging and 
retention  
  
2.2.1  
Event logging 
Partner must have tools / technologies (such as Google Cloud operations 
suite (formerly Stackdriver) and Cloud Logging, to enable logging of events 
at the infrastructure and/or application layers. Partner may rely on Google 
tools, but should provide their approach to default policies and retention 
across Google services, which they configure and respond to for their 
managed services customers. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide evidence of event-logging capabilities, including the 
collection of logs from servers, containers, network devices, 
and storage systems (Infrastructure logging) OR the 
collection of logs from databases, application servers, and/or 
SaaS solutions (application logging). This evidence must 
show the storage of these events in a collection system or 
database, and the correlation of multiple log entries coming 
from single events.    
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 14 
 

 
 
Provide workflow documentation regarding how events 
captured cause actions, such as auto-remediation or 
generation of case reports to be supported by the partner 
manually. 
  
2.2.2  
Retention 
policy 
Partner must have a log retention policy, and a process for ensuring 
compliance to the policy.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide an established documented log retention policy and 
records of compliance. 
x  
Provide documentation of retention policy for infrastructure 
layer logging and value-added application layer logging. 
x  
2.2.3  
Log access 
Partner must make logs accessible to the customer. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstrate logs are provided to customers including 
details of the methods to provide this access. 
  
2.2.4  
Log data 
mining  
Partner must mine the log collections to perform root cause analysis and 
process optimization. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide records of data analysis activities and examples of 
recommendations for improvement based on these 
activities. 
  
2.3  
Ticketing 
system 
2.3.1  
Ticketing tool 
Partner must have a ticketing system, developed in-house or leveraging  
third-party tools, to receive, track, and log service requests.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Technology demonstration highlighting the partner's  
ticketing system which at a minimum must include: 
● Products and tools used for receiving, tracking, and 
logging service requests 
● Ability of the support desk personnel to access the 
list of previous service requests of a customer for 
correlation purposes   
● A capability must be present to keep logs and audit 
trail of tasks that MSP personnel are requested to 
implement. These may be in the form of 
customer-approved change orders or closed service 
requests, and could be present only for a subset of 
customers who may have stronger operational 
requirements 
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 The demonstration showed that the ticketing system can interact 
with the partner's CMDB so that change requests that will affect 
configuration will generate auditable approval workflows. 
 The demonstration included a capability for the customer to track 
their invoicing and the telemetry data of their systems under 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 15 
 

 
 
management, using ITSM ticketing tool integrations (i.e.,  
customer-side ticketing system can remotely trigger a request for 
log collection, monitoring, or billing data). 
2.3.2  
Case/request 
handling 
Partner must have a process for receiving, acknowledging, and recording 
customer requests in accordance with service level objectives.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstration of how support/service requests are received 
(such as via call center, service desk, email, messaging, chat), 
acknowledged (for example, via call back, if in SLA scope) 
and logged/time stamped. 
  
2.3.3  
Case/request 
prioritization 
Partner must prioritize and manage requests according to the mapping of 
priority in accordance with their tiered support model referenced in section 
2.1.3.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Examples of prioritized requests, i.e., in the ticketing system.   
2.3.4  
Case 
escalation 
Partner must have a process for escalation of cases, including escalation to 
Google Cloud Support when appropriate. Partner must have an internal 
escalation process describing how the various teams within the Google 
Cloud practice area will escalate a technical issue internally before opening a 
case with Google. For example, Partner Technical Support Level 1 Engineer 
escalates internally to Partner Technical Support Level 2, 3, or 4 and then 
opens Google Support case, or Professional Services Engineer escalates an 
internal partner case for assistance to Partner Technical Support before 
opening a case to Google). 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a documented escalation process, and at least one 
example of the process executed in the last 12 months. 
x  
Provide the documentation for the defined internal process 
to escalate within the partner's own internal teams. 
  
Provide the documentation for the defined internal process 
to escalate to Google Cloud Support. 
  
Provide an example of the information that is available to 
customers on how to escalate cases opened with the 
partner. 
  
2.3.5  
Case/request 
resolution 
Partner must have processes defining resolution of customer cases, 
including, for example, how bug and feature requests are handled, how 
service unavailability is handled.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide records of case status and resolution.   
Provide process documentation regarding how the MSP 
team handles case resolution. 
  
2.3.6  
Time of 
response/ 
resolution 
Partner must track case response and resolution time at each priority level 
for each tier of support. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Documentation showing at least six months aggregate  x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 16 
 

 
 
tracking of cases showing the partner's Mean Time to 
Response metric. 
Describe actions taken in response to these metrics.   
 
  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 The evidence showed that the partner also tracks Mean Time to 
Resolution of cases and acts upon the results of these metrics. 
2.3.7 
Customer 
verification  
Partner must have processes allowing customers to verify the successful 
resolution of cases and requests. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide records of customer verification of case resolution. 
 
x  
2.4 
Incident 
management 
  
2.4.1  
Incident 
management 
process 
Partner must have a process in place for identifying and recording 
service-impacting incidents.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a documented process for incident management, 
including how service-impacting incidents are filtered from 
all recorded events. 
x  
2.4.2  
Incident 
management 
records 
Partner must maintain records of identified incidents. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Include examples of identified incidents, including examples 
where incident information was communicated to customers. 
x  
2.5  
Problem 
management 
2.5.1  
Problem 
management 
process 
Partner must have a process in place for identifying and recording problems, 
including those resulting from incidents with no known cause or due to 
proactive monitoring or data analysis.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a documented process for problem management 
and examples of problem records. 
x  
2.5.2 Problem 
management 
records 
Partner must maintain records of problem management activities.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide examples of problem management, including 
identification, logging, analysis, and entry into a Known Errors 
Database (KEDB). 
x  
2.6  
Asset 
management 
  
2.6.1  
Asset 
management 
strategy and 
records 
Partner must have a strategy for tracking and managing deployed Google 
Cloud assets beyond the Google Cloud Console, and must maintain records 
of deployed assets. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
A technology demonstration of how the partner tracks and 
manages deployed Google Cloud assets. 
x  
Provide documentation that demonstrates a clear 
deployment strategy for their managed services customers. 
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 17 
 

 
 
Provide documentation or a technology demonstration 
showing how the partner keeps record of the assets that are 
deployed. 
  
2.7  
Configuration 
and change 
management 
2.7.1  
Configuration 
and change 
management 
processes 
Partner must have processes in place for configuration and change 
management.  This may include: 
 
● Management of server images  
● Configuration of instances (at launch / while active) 
● Application of patches and upgrades  
● Configuration of security groups and firewalls 
● Versioning / change rollback 
 
Functions in this area  include but are not limited to creating, versioning, and 
maintaining a library of server images and configuration files, keeping a 
history of changes to configuration, testing changes and upgrades before 
applying them, applying patches and upgrades to production instances, and 
rolling back changes to configuration files if necessary. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Include a technology demonstration, including examples of 
the above activities.   
  
Provide a documented change management process.   
2.8  
Release and 
deployment 
management 
2.8.1  
Release and 
deployment 
management 
processes 
Partner must have processes in place for release and deployment of 
applications / workloads.  These processes may include but are not limited to: 
 
The release and deployment management process should determine the 
release scope, identify stakeholders, and create a release plan. The process 
should include a testing phase in a staging environment to ensure that the 
application or workload is working as expected. The deployment process 
should deploy the application or workload to production and initiate 
monitoring in production to ensure that it is performing as expected. There 
should be a rollback process to revert to a previous version if necessary. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide established documented processes for release and 
deployment management, including a technology 
demonstration of tools used. 
  
2.8.2  
Deployment 
tooling 
As part of the release and deployment process, the partner must utilize 
self-service tooling or managed CI/CD (Continuous Integration / Continuous 
Delivery) pipelines for application and infrastructure deployment and to  
decrease deployment times, improve reliability, and reduce customer 
deployment costs through automation.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation or a technology demonstration of the 
self-service tooling and/or managed CI/CD pipelines 
application/infrastructure deployment of the partner's 
customers. The partner must demonstrate or present the 
  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 18 
 

 
 
process and tooling for self-service or automated CI/CD 
pipelines in place for deployment.  
2.9  
Access 
management 
2.9.1  
Partner access 
to customer 
infrastructure 
Partner is expected to actively manage customer workloads and must 
provide documentation on how they achieve required access to the 
customer's infrastructure.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation on how access is achieved. x  
Provide definitions on what level of access is achieved. x  
Provide documentation on time limitations configured. x  
2.9.2  
Customer 
access to 
Google Cloud 
Partner must define the level of Google Cloud access provided to customers 
if workloads are within the partner’s organization or otherwise. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation of the identity and access 
management (IAM) policy and processes used to enable 
customer access to Google Cloud 
x  
Demonstrate the tooling provided for directory integration, 
user management, and access management 
x  
2.10  
Service level 
agreements  
2.10.1  
Support SLAs 
Partner must provide support SLAs to customers specific to Google Cloud 
services and products and additional SLAs specific to the partner's core 
technical competency.  
 
Advanced capabilities in this area are shown by partners who provide 
application-level or business-outcome SLAs to customers,   
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstrate that support SLAs specific to Google Cloud 
Managed Services are provided to customers in the form of 
signed documentation evidence in customer contracts. 
x  
Provide documentation on additional SLAs offered for 
partner specific competencies provided to customers. 
  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
  
 Partner offers application-level SLAs to customers. 
 Partner offers business-outcome SLAs based on customer-specific 
application or system requirements. 
 
2.11  
Reporting 
2.11.1  
Performance 
analysis 
reporting 
 
Partner should provide performance analysis reporting to customers. This 
type of reporting identifies areas where the customer may be able to 
improve efficiency or where performance may be degraded. Includes a 
summary of the new alerts and notifications for detected or documented 
performance issues with customer applications or infrastructure over the last 
reporting period.  
 
These reports can be used to identify trends in performance and to make 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 19 
 

 
 
predictions about future performance requirements. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide example Performance Analysis Reports 
provided to customers, including tools and sources used, and 
metrics gathered.  
x  
2.11.2  
Asset/usage 
reporting 
Partner should provide asset/usage reporting to customers with data such as 
number of assets in use, the amount of storage space, and the amount of 
network traffic being generated, and qualitative information such as areas 
where performance may be degraded, calls-to-action to improve 
performance by upgrading the deployed resources or optimizing 
applications, security risks associated with assets, etc.   
 
This information can be used to track the usage of assets, identify 
underutilized assets, and make decisions about future capacity planning.   
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide examples of the Asset Usage Reports 
provided to customers, including tools and sources used, and 
metrics gathered.  The examples must include asset use 
improvement recommendations. 
x  
2.11.3  
Cost reporting 
Partner must provide cost reporting to customers. These reports should 
facilitate for the customer to understand their total cost of Google Cloud 
usage, the cost of individual services, and the cost of specific resources.  The 
reports should highlight potential cost savings associated with changes to 
resource usage, identify underutilized resources, and provide 
recommendations for improving cost-efficiency. 
 
This information can be used to track costs, identify areas where costs may 
be excessive, and make decisions about future cost-savings initiatives. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide examples of the Cost Reports provided 
to customers (can be anonymized), including tools and 
sources used, and metrics gathered.  The examples must  
include cost-effectiveness improvement recommendations. 
x  
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 20 
 

 
 
 
3.0 Cloud management platform 
Item Requirement Description 
3.1  
Customer 
support portal 
(CSP) 
3.1.1  
Customer 
support portal 
(CSP) 
 
 
Partner must provide a customer-facing support portal, i.e., web based 
interface(s) that act as customer landing pages for the partner's  
ITSM/support offering, and for their managed Google Cloud projects and 
resources.  
 
This portal is the one-stop-shop for customers to find their service 
monitoring, cost-monitoring, dashboard, reports, etc. The customer support 
portal (CSP) should interact with the partner's ITSM tool (see control 2.3.1),  
and allow customers to log and track support requests, view the history and 
status of the workflows initiated by their requests, monitor workload 
performance, understand usage and costs, and access relevant reports. 
 
The partner’s CSP should be in addition to the Google Cloud Console, 
providing valued added information to the end customer specific to the 
workloads being managed.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a live demonstration of the CSP, including examples of 
customer interactions with the portal.  
x  
Show the ability for customers to interact with support and 
service requests through their CSP.  
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
  
 The portal provides value-added capabilities on top of Google Cloud 
first-party portals in terms of understanding usage and costs, or 
customization of the reports related to their services under 
management.   
 The portal includes access to a click-to-order catalog of online-based 
managed services, and/or resold Google Cloud services. 
 The portal offers the ability to self-provision managed services in the 
partner's infrastructure or in Google Cloud. 
 The portal allows the customer to monitor workload performance live 
and/or see historical performance reports. 
3.2  
CMP 
provisioning 
and 
orchestration 
 
3.2.1  
Cloud asset 
provisioning 
and 
orchestration 
 
 
 
Partner must operate a platform, or a combination of tools, APIs, and portals, 
which can be used by customers or partner's service desks                                        
to provision Google Cloud assets. The requests created by these tools should 
be controlled by access policies and should be able to follow approval 
processes which require human interaction or fulfillment of other associated 
requests.  To orchestrate assets and execute required tasks, the partner might 
use infrastructure-as-code blueprints.   
 
The solution should be able to orchestrate workflows based on schedules or 
events.  This solution should cover different types of server-based, serverless 
and/or SaaS components, with the ability to operate assets for different types 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 21 
 

 
 
of users, including customer and service desk personas, as well as other 
applications and processes endpoints. 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Capability for customers to request the provisioning,  
deprovisioning, or modification of Google Cloud assets via the 
CMP toolset (MSP personnel can do the fulfillment of this 
request manually or using automated deployment and 
configuration tools).  
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 The demonstration of provisioning and deprovisioning capabilities 
showed that services are exposed via an end-user portal AND via a 
set of APIs that interact with portals or other ITSM tools on the 
customer's end, enabling automated provisioning scenarios initiated 
by customer's ITSM tools.   
 The CMP includes integration with container orchestrators such as 
Kubernetes automation, and configuration tools such as Terraform, 
Ansible, Chef, Puppet, etc. 
 The CMP can collect and maintain a chronological list of events that 
have occurred within the CMP as an audit trail. 
3.3  
CMP inventory 
and 
classification 
3.3.1 
Configuration 
management 
database 
Partner must be able to maintain at all times an accurate inventory of all assets 
under their management. Partner must have a configuration management 
database (CMDB), to store, track, and audit workload and asset configuration 
items throughout their lifecycle. 
 
The CMDB should have the capability to keep an accurate inventory of 
configuration Items for the tracked assets.  The CMDB should be able to 
interact with metadata from Google Cloud assets to organize resources and 
execute tasks by labels, tags, access policies, locations, etc. The CMDB should 
be able to initiate alerts in the case that configuration drift is detected in the 
assets under management, and should be able to enforce the return to a 
trusted-state configuration. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
A demonstration of how the CMDB can maintain a list of 
configuration items (CIs).  
x  
Demonstrate a link between incident reports/tickets to CIs and 
change requests. 
x  
Partner must have the capability to discover new configuration 
items like applications, servers, storage and services, and a 
process to ingest them into the CMDB. 
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 The demonstration included an existing customer implementation, or 
a live scenario of the functionality of discovery and ingestion of the 
CIs. 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 22 
 

 
 
 Demonstrated the ability to record and maintain an audit trail of 
changes and updates to CIs. 
 The toolset was able to show the map of dependencies and 
relationships between CIs. 
 The solution includes customer-facing CMDB dashboards.  
 The demonstration showed the CMDB's capability of identifying 
configuration drift automatically in known CIs.  
 Partner’s CMP or ITSM toolset automatically initiated alerts for review, 
validation, or correction when configuration drift was detected. 
3.4  
CMP cost 
management 
and workload 
optimization 
3.4.1  
CMP cost 
management 
Partner must operate a system to automate the tracking and consumption of 
Google Cloud resources or have a process wrapping around the native cost 
management capabilities in Google Cloud. This system must be able to track 
resource consumption and monetary spending for all cloud assets, projects, 
organizations, and billing subaccounts of the customer.  
 
The CMP may enable the end-customer to create cost-allocation rules and 
cross-charge to specific initiatives, departments, or org units inside the 
customer.  The CMP's cost allocation structure should be customizable to 
meet different customer structures. The CMP should provide the capability to 
create budget alert policies and define triggers on spending anomaly 
detection. 
 
The partner's CMP should provide accurate analysis and reports and may 
include predictive analytics to detect anomalies and contain future costs.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide examples of the reports that are regularly delivered to 
customers, the sources used, and the metrics gathered to 
demonstrate how their CMP tracks Google Cloud assets 
costs. 
● Automation can happen either real-time, interfacing 
with Google Cloud APIs, or at regular intervals through 
the automated export of Google Cloud and Partner 
Sales Console billing information to BigQuery 
● Ingestion of the gathered data to an MSP-operated 
cost management system, database, or dashboard  
x  
A demonstration of the capability of providing  
consumption-based invoicing detailed by customer 
departments, organizational units, programs, or initiatives. 
x  
A demonstration of the ability for the customer to set specific 
spending budgetary limits per cost-center, Google Cloud 
project, organization, or other form of customer-level 
initiatives or projects. 
x  
A demonstration of the alerting mechanisms that are 
triggered when the consumption is approaching or surpassing 
budgetary thresholds, either those set by the customer or 
those automatically set by the fraud prevention strategy (see 
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 23 
 

 
 
control 5.4.1). 
A demonstration showing that every new customer is created 
with a Google Cloud monetary spending budget alert, which 
notifies key personnel in the partner's support and operations 
team, and a confirmation that these budget alerts trigger a 
workflow for follow up. 
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 A demonstration of how an existing or fictitious new customer's cost 
center structure is implemented in the CMP and co-related to tags, 
projects, folders, and/or billing subaccounts inside Google Cloud. 
 Demonstration of how the customer can self-provision the 
distribution of cost and consumption data in their own custom 
structure. 
3.4.2 
Workload 
optimization 
As a result of analytics obtained from the collected assets consumption, the 
partner should be able to provide workload and cost optimization 
recommendations to customers.  Partner should be able to analyze utilization 
patterns and provide purchase recommendations using Google Cloud 
sustained use discounts (SUDs), or recommendations to right-size cloud 
assets based on performance tracking. 
 
The recommendations to customers can be built using the partner's CMP 
tools or Google Cloud-native recommendation engine capabilities. 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide examples of workload optimization recommendations 
presented to two distinct customers (can be anonymized).  
 
The evidence must present at least one example of rightsizing 
recommendations done based on resource performance 
tracking, and one example of Google Cloud capacity 
reservation purchase recommendation based on cost 
tracking. 
x  
3.5  
CMP 
monitoring 
and analytics   
3.5.1  
Monitoring 
systems and 
tools 
Partner is expected to provide and support proactive monitoring and alerting. 
Partner must have systems and tools in place to monitor infrastructure and 
applications on Google Cloud (such as Cloud operations suite). 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a documented process / policy demonstrating what is 
monitored and how. Must show the strategy for monitoring  
cloud infrastructure resources including at least system health 
monitoring of VMs, CPU utilization, memory usage, network 
usage, storage IOPs, and OS performance. 
x  
Provide a documented process / policy demonstrating the 
partner's monitoring deployment strategy. 
  
Include a technology demonstration of the partner's 
monitoring capabilities including a walk through of an 
  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 24 
 

 
 
event-driven support case that has been serviced by the 
partner due to monitoring activities. 
3.5.2  
Monitoring 
analytics  
Partner must conduct analysis as a result of monitoring activities. 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
The partner's CMP must have the capability for aggregating 
monitoring data with log collection. This can be demonstrated 
with evidence of the use of Google Cloud operations suite 
(formerly Stackdriver) and Cloud Logging. 
x  
Provide example cases demonstrating that metrics are 
displayed/assessed and analyzed for customers. 
  
3.5.3  
Monitoring 
alerts 
Partner must have processes in place to provide alerts to customers when 
appropriate, as a result of the above analysis. Alerting must especially include 
instances of how alerts for anomalous / unexpected surges in customer 
spend are set, detected and communicated to the customer. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstrate a process in place to identify anomalous or 
unexpected surges in customer’s Google Cloud spend or 
resource utilization through the monitoring of customer's 
deployments.  
 
The demonstration must show the process for the 
identification of any unusual patterns or trends, and the 
generation of alerts for anomalous or unexpected surges 
according to pre-set thresholds, then the demonstration must 
show how these alerts are sent to the MSP's personnel and to 
the customer. 
 
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 Partner is using ML/AI to identify anomalies more quickly and 
accurately. ML/AI is used to analyze large amounts of data and helps 
the MSP identify anomalies more quickly and accurately than 
manually set thresholds. 
 Partner is using ML/AI to predict potential anomalies before they 
occur. The partner demonstrated how ML/AI has been used to 
analyze historical data and identify patterns that may lead to future 
anomalies. By predicting potential anomalies before they occur, the 
MSP can take corrective action to prevent them from happening. 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 25 
 

 
 
 
4.0 Google Cloud product technical knowledge 
Partner should proficiently support customers across all (200+) Google Cloud services, architect solutions based 
on business needs, deploy them via automated processes across various environments, and securely manage 
operations for these cloud-based solutions. 
 
To demonstrate their technical proficiency, the partner must showcase their experience with the technologies 
listed in sections 4.1.x and 4.2.x. This can be done through a combination of the following: 
 
● Live technical demonstrations of the managed service, actively showcasing the ability to configure, 
deploy, and manage the technology for one or multiple customers. These demonstrations should 
highlight active customers and their successful management of the technology. 
● Documented previous support cases that the partner managed on behalf of customers specifically 
focusing on the technology in question. These cases should demonstrate the partner's capability to 
troubleshoot and resolve issues with the product effectively. 
● Customer record documents showing that the partner has been actively involved in managing the 
technology for paying customers. These records should demonstrate that the partner had a contractual 
obligation to support the technology for customers within the last 24 months. 
 
Partners who have not provided qualifying managed services for a customer on some of these technologies 
within the last 24 months can still demonstrate their capabilities through alternative means. This includes: 
 
● Live Sandbox Technical Demonstration: A live demonstration of the ability to use the product in a 
managed services context, even if there are no current customers using it. This demonstration should 
include provisioning and monitoring of the product within a multi-tenant MSP toolset, accompanied by 
diagrams or documents showcasing how the technology integrates with their cloud management 
platform. 
 
● Demonstration of internal use in the partner’s CMP: Partners can demonstrate their use of the 
technology internally within their MSP practice if it fits the following criteria: 
● The technology is used directly in the partner’s MSP practice.  
● The technology should indirectly support at least three active MSP customers. 
 
Some examples would be: Consuming Storage Transfer Service during previous customer migrations, 
securing their ITSM or CMP APIs using Apigee Advanced API Security, Using Vertex AI to develop 
automated MSP service agents, using BigQuery as the MSP cost-management database, etc. 
 
● Hypothetical Presentation: Partners can provide a document or slides presentation demonstrating 
their ability to architect and use the product in a managed services environment. This is only applicable 
if the Google Cloud product is listed in section 4.2.x of the assessment. The presentation must 
include a technical walkthrough and architecture diagrams for the deployment, monitoring, and 
management of the technology. 
 
Recommended documentation for hypothetical presentations: 
○ Design Documents: These documents explain the management processes of the technology in 
a multi-tenant MSP environment, such as standard operating procedures and baseline capacity 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 26 
 

 
 
planning after migration. 
○ Slides: While minimizing the number of slides, partners can use technical and operational 
information in this format to present architecture diagrams of the Google Cloud technology 
interacting with their CMP for monitoring, deployment, cost management, optimization, etc. 
 
Ultimately, the assessor will see the presentation holistically, from the perspective of potential customers’ 
technical decision-makers, looking for evidence which shows that the partner: 
● Possesses knowledge of the technology, 
● Can deliver a secure and resilient service aligned with their core management value-add, 
● Contributes to customer's spend optimization and provides recommendations on utilizing the service 
effectively. 
Evidence Required 
   
Each technology must be demonstrated with at least one valid artifact.  A single customer scenario can be 
reused to produce artifacts across more than one technology, but in total the partner must show at least three 
distinct customers across the list (i.e., examples can't be all from a single customer).    
 
Valid artifacts for demonstration of controls 4.1.x are at least one of: 
 
● Artifact 1: SOW or contract with at least one active customer from the last 24 months, specifically 
mentioning the technology as managed by the MSP 
● Artifact 2: Live demonstration of the technology being monitored and serviced by the MSP's support 
team in at least one customer-owned environment 
● Artifact 3: Live demonstration of the technology used internally in the MSP's cloud management 
platform, servicing indirectly a minimum of three distinct customers 
● Artifact 4: Live demonstration of the technology in a sandbox environment showing at least deployment 
and monitoring activities  
● Artifact 5: Design documents for the managed service of a previous customer (not older than 24 
months) showing that the partner implemented managed services beyond the initial migration - 
examples are capacity planning, monitoring strategy, on-going maintenance plans, regular update 
processes, standard operations procedures documents. 
 
Note on co-managed scenarios:  
 
For co-managed solutions (i.e., where a partner supported the deployment for a customer and 
enabled/proposed the monitoring strategy, but the L1 support is mostly done by the customer), we require that 
the partner presents management opt-out from an active customer, and at least be servicing cost reports and 
optimization recommendations to be considered a valid evidence artifact for a product in section 4.1.x.  
 
Section 4.1.x - Cloud products in current MSP growth cycle 
Item Product R Met (Y/N) 
4.1.1  
IaaS compute 
   
4.1.1.1 Compute Engine x  
4.1.1.2 App Engine x  
4.1.1.3 Google Kubernetes Engine x  
4.1.2  4.1.2.1 Cloud Storage x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 27 
 

 
 
Storage and database 4.1.2.2 Cloud SQL x  
4.1.2.3 Cloud Bigtable x  
4.1.3  
Data and analytics  
4.1.3.1 BigQuery x  
4.1.3.2 Pub/Sub x  
4.1.3.3 Looker Studio x  
4.1.4  
Identity and security 
4.1.4.1 Cloud Asset Inventory x  
4.1.4.2 Cloud Identity x  
4.1.4.3 Cloud Resource Manager x  
4.1.4.4 Security Command Center  x  
4.1.4.5 Web Security Scanner  x  
4.1.5  
Management tools 
4.1.5.1 Google Cloud’s operations suite (formerly Stackdriver) x  
4.1.5.2 Cloud Monitoring x  
4.1.5.3 Cloud Logging x  
4.1.5.4 Cloud Billing export x  
4.1.6  
Networking 
4.1.6.1 Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) x  
4.1.6.2 Cloud Load Balancing x  
4.1.6.3 Cloud CDN x  
4.1.6.4 Cloud Interconnect x  
4.1.6.5 Cloud DNS x  
4.1.6.6 Cloud network security x  
 
Valid artifacts for demonstration of controls 4.2.x are at least one of: 
 
● Any of the artifacts valid on section 4.1.x, OR 
● Artifact 6: A purely-hypothetical scenario presentation showing the management capabilities of the 
partner for the technology.  The presentation should cover: 
a. Partner’s standard operating procedures (SOP) document for this technology and the 
architectural diagram showing the service in the context of the rest of the partner’s CMP. 
b. A hypothetical user story of how customers interact with your service for day to day operations 
and during incidents, how operators are alerted when necessary, and how the service interacts 
with the ITSM / CMP for provisioning, service, and monitoring. 
 
Section 4.2.x - Cloud products in next MSP growth cycle (Forecasted by analysts and Google) or  
Google Cloud management platform toolset 
Item Product R Met (Y/N) 
4.2.1  
Serverless compute 
4.2.1.1 Cloud Functions x  
4.2.1.2 Cloud Run x  
4.2.2  
CITSP managed 
storage and DBs  
4.2.2.1 Firestore x  
4.2.2.2 Memorystore x  
4.2.2.3 Cloud Spanner  x  
4.2.3  4.2.3.1 Storage Transfer Service  x  
4.2.3.2 BigQuery Data Transfer Service  x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 28 
 

 
 
MSP data stewardship 
and CITSP managed 
analytics solutions  
4.2.3.3 Dataflow  x  
4.2.3.4 Cloud Data Fusion or Dataprep  x  
4.2.3.5 Dataproc x  
4.2.4  
Hybrid and multi 
cloud management 
4.2.4.1 Anthos x  
4.2.4.2 Anthos Service Mesh x  
4.2.4.3 Cloud Build x  
4.2.4.4 Apigee and/or Apigee Hybrid x  
4.2.4.5 Advanced API Security (formerly Apigee Sense), or equivalent 
technology in the partner's CMP to secure customer's APIs 
x  
 
The following controls are for tools that are only available for reselling partners.  Non-reselling MSPs are excluded 
from having to demonstrate proficiency in controls 4.2.5.x.   
 
4.2.5  
Google Cloud 
management 
platform toolset  
4.2.5.1 Partner Sales Console x  
4.2.5.2 Service Catalog (formerly Private Catalog)  x  
4.2.5.3 Cloud Billing API x  
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 29 
 

 
 
 
5.0 Security 
Item Requirement Description 
5.1  
Security 
management 
5.1.1  
Security 
policies and 
procedures 
Partner must have security policies and procedures for the protection of 
internal and customer systems, including their physical and network security, 
logical data protection, server access and multi-factor authentication, and 
application-level security practices.  
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Documentation showing the established security policies 
and procedures used on current managed services 
customers, including: 
● Demonstration of network security monitoring 
activities  
● Documentation of multi-factor authentication 
practices covering all elevated security processes or 
personnel accessing customer infrastructure  
● Provide documentation of an established process to 
continuously review that elevated access is provided 
under the basis of Just-in-Time (JIT) and 
Just-Enough (JE).  
● Elevated privileges must have an automatic  
expiration   
● Granted privileges are only those that are 
necessary to fulfill the required task  
● A demonstration of the partner’s approach to 
protecting data sources like databases or data lakes  
x  
OR 
Provide current certification to ISO 27001. 
 
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 Demonstration included results of previous security validations 
executed on customer infrastructure and/or applications for at least 
two customers under management. 
 
5.1.2  
Security 
management 
review 
Partner must ensure that security management policies and procedures are 
reviewed, approved, and communicated throughout the organization.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner must provide records of review, approval, and 
communication of security management policies and 
procedures. 
x  
OR 
Provide current certification to ISO 27001. 
 
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 30 
 

 
 
5.2  
User account 
and credentials 
management 
5.2.1  
User account 
provisioning 
and 
management 
Partner must have a process for managing access to Google Cloud 
resources by defining who (principal) has what access (role). These principals 
can be individual user accounts associated with customers or partner staff, 
as well as service accounts for applications or compute workloads. 
 
This procedure should include clearly documented governance methods 
outlining the Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies for these 
principals. Specifically, it should encompass workflows for defining, granting, 
modifying, and revoking roles which group the permissions that a principal 
needs. These roles, encapsulating the required permissions, are then 
assigned to the authenticated principals. The IAM policies should be enforced 
consistently across their customer base and among security personnel and 
must be continuously validated. 
 
Following the principle of least privilege (PoLP), the MSP should ensure that 
roles granted to principals contain only the minimum set of permissions 
required for their tasks or system functions. Rather than assigning individual 
permissions, the process assigns roles which group the necessary 
permissions. 
 
Moreover, audits must be conducted routinely within internal and customer 
environments to identify and revoke any principal's role that no longer aligns 
with the least privilege principle. This includes any other access components 
such as SSH Keys, passwords, high-level scripts, and credential hashes that 
are associated with the principal's identity. 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstrations of the products and tools used to provision 
and deprovision named Google Cloud user accounts with 
access to customer workloads which exist outside of the 
partner organization.   
 
Must include the following: 
 
● All types of accounts (partner's support personnel 
accounts, customer staff accounts, and service 
system accounts) must have a documented life 
cycle, showing password policies, revocation times, 
access times, and when privileged roles are provided 
● Identity and Access Management system provides 
Role-based access control (RBAC), such as privileges 
are assigned to roles/groups and not directly to user 
or system accounts   
x  
OR 
Provide current certification to ISO 27001. x  
5.2.2  MSPs handle customer data across diverse systems and geographical 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 31 
 

 
 
Multi-factor 
authenticatio
n (MFA) 
locations, amplifying the potential risk of cyber attacks.  Partner must ensure 
that Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is implemented pervasively, and 
managed through security policies that are applied and verified continuously 
across their customer base and support personnel.   
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide evidence of the use of multi-factor authentication 
(MFA) as a requirement for any partner personnel to access 
sensitive customer data and to access the partner's own 
management systems. Partner must have a comprehensive 
document in place outlining the partner's MFA procedures, 
protocols, and types of factors used for authentication  
x  
5.3  
Disaster 
recovery  
5.3.1  
Disaster 
recovery 
planning 
Partner must plan for business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) to 
ensure continued operation during outages. The BCDR plan should be 
communicated internally throughout the partner's organization, and shared 
with customers, and must cover multiple scenarios and foreseeable events 
that the partner identifies as potentially blocking them to provide the 
managed service for the customer.  
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide records of the BCDR plan testing within the past 12 
months. 
x  
Provide an established, documented, and implemented 
business continuity process for the partner's managed 
service operations and infrastructure.  Include evidence 
showing that the partner’s managed services personnel are 
aware of the plan and participate in testing. 
  
Demonstrate that the plan includes a recovery strategy and 
the necessary response plans to communicate and provide 
minimal support to customers during outages. 
  
OR 
Provide current certification to ISO 22301 x  
5.4  
Fraud protection 
5.4.1  
Fraud 
protection 
Partner is expected to have safeguards in place to prevent fraudulent 
spending on Google Cloud for workloads the partner is financially 
responsible for. 
 
In principle, every customer that the partner is financially responsible for 
(managed service or resell) should be assigned a minimal budgetary cap and 
the partner should have processes and tools in place to ensure that this 
budget is not exceeded, and to alert when spending approaches it.    
 
The toolset should also be able to collect events coming from disparate 
systems (such as workload monitoring, intrusion detection, logs, network 
operations, and/or configuration changes coming from the partner's CMDB) 
and co-relate them into single units of data that allow the partner to detect 
new fraudulent customer behavior patterns. 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 32 
 

 
 
 
The partner must have a process in place to provide their commercial and 
sales personnel with the necessary correlated data to avoid fraudulent 
companies to sign-up or to stay in their service. 
 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation regarding the partner's policy to 
mitigate against fraudulent account creation and activity. 
x  
Provide evidence showing spend monitoring for all 
workloads the partner is financially responsible for.  
x  
Demonstrate how during the onboarding process, every new 
customer is assigned a budgetary spending limit according 
to their size and trust-level, and that alerts are triggered to 
on-call support personnel available 7x24, when cloud 
spending approaches this threshold.   
x  
Demonstrate that a process is available and documented to 
deal with fraudulent spending detections, including 
suspension of the offending account if necessary. 
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 Existing tools for correlating security incidents from different systems 
(such as security information and event management [SIEM] tool or 
equivalent functionality) targeted at identifying resource 
consumption surges or unusual spending patterns in existing 
accounts under management.     
 Ability of detecting and automatically suspending accounts that incur 
in crypto mining. 
 
 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 33 
 

 
 
 
6.0 Assessment, design, and migration  
Item Requirement Description 
6.1  
PartnerSpecial
izations 
6.1.1  
PartnerSpecia
lizations 
 
Partner must have achieved and hold at least two out of the three following 
Partner Specializations 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Partner holds a currently active Google Cloud Infrastructure 
Specialization.  
x  
Partner holds a currently active Google Cloud Application 
Development - Services Specialization.  
x  
Partner holds a currently active Google Cloud  
Migration - Services Specialization.  
x  
6.2 
Infrastructure 
assessment 
and design 
processes and 
tools 
6.2.1 
Infrastructure 
assessment 
(Section 6.2 can be considered fully met if the partner holds a Google 
Cloud Infrastructure Specialization) 
 
MSPs in the initiative offer processes to discover and assess the customer's 
current on-premises infrastructure architecture.  These partners are able to 
rationalize the customer's existing service management workflows and ITSM 
tools to adapt and integrate them as part of their managed service. 
 
A demonstration of the process, workflows, and diagrams used to execute 
standard infrastructure assessment and reports for at least two customers will 
be required in this control.  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide documentation that demonstrates how the partner 
captures customer requirements associated with the 
datacenter environment that will be operated. 
x  
Provide documentation showing the outcome of discovery 
tools and measurements, or manual surveys utilized by the 
partner to determine the installed infrastructure, in at least 
two customer scenarios. 
x  
Documentation showing the capability of identifying 
infrastructure requirements, system performance, capacity 
management, and availability measurement. 
x  
Provide results of cost estimations and capacity planning 
activities executed with customers. 
  
6.3  
Application 
assessment, 
design and 
development 
processes 
 
 
6.3.1  
Application 
assessment, 
design and 
development 
(Section 6.3 can be considered fully met if the partner holds a Google 
Application Development Specialization) 
 
MSP partners who offer application development and application management 
have processes in place to discover and assess the customer's application 
architecture as well as developing or refactoring solutions to become 
managed apps in Google Cloud.   
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 34 
 

 
 
A demonstration of the process, workflows and diagrams used to execute 
standard application assessment and management will be required in this 
control.   
  
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Documentation that shows a delivery approach is in place for 
reviewing applications in their current state and identifying 
the requirements to move such applications to Google Cloud, 
which at a minimum should include:   
● Design of the support requirements necessary to 
meet customer application requirements in the cloud   
● Mapping of service support processes and SLOs for 
application management 
x  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 Partner demonstrated the capability of providing application 
architectural reviews. 
 Partner demonstrated the capability to develop new applications 
based on customer requirements or refactor existing application code 
to operate as a managed service in Google Cloud. 
 Partner showed at least two customer applications currently under 
management in Google Cloud with specific SLOs agreed in customer 
to partner signed documents. 
 Partner's demonstration included a clear approach to offer managed 
DevOps to customers, showing tools for source control, CI/CD, code, 
and configuration management. 
6.4  
Migration 
processes and 
tools 
 
  
 
6.4.1  
Infrastructure 
and 
application 
migration 
processes 
(Section 6.4 can be considered fully met if the partner holds a Google 
Cloud Migration - Services Specialization) 
 
Partner must have documented capability to migrate customer infrastructure 
and applications from on-premises and/or from other cloud providers to 
Google Cloud, offering the ability to deploy, secure, run, monitor, and configure 
virtualized and application workloads. 
 
A demonstration of the processes and tools for assessing and planning 
migrations, and reports for at least two customer migrations executed by the 
partner will be required in this control.   
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Technology demonstrations of at least two migrations of 
customer infrastructure and/or applications for current 
managed services customers done in the last 24 months.   
x  
Provide information about the size of the infrastructure that 
was migrated (# of applications, # of VMs, # of containers, # 
of databases).   
x  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 35 
 

 
 
Partner must operate a publicly available website promoting 
the partner’s migration practice to Google Cloud from 
on-premises or from other cloud providers. 
x  
Demonstrate that the assessment process includes wave 
planning, move groups recommendations, and 
customer/partner joint plans to define service and customer 
solution roadmaps. 
  
Voluntary advanced capabilities declaration: 
 
 The demonstration shows abilities to analyze applications in their 
current state and abstract application deployment from infrastructure 
requirements. 
 Migration of servers and other infrastructure components is done 
using infrastructure-as-code tools. 
 The demonstration included refactoring or rearchitecting of at least 
two applications into Google Cloud serverless and/or container 
services. 
6.4.2  
Migration 
tools 
Partner must use in-house or third-party products or tools during the 
migration process, including for service provisioning, migration of data and 
infrastructure, and automated provisioning, de-provisioning, and deployment.  
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Evidence must include technology demonstrations of the 
applicable tools. 
x  
Evidence must include either two Statements of Work for 
migration customers where the demonstrated tools are 
referenced, or provide the output/snapshots/results of at 
least two migration processes conducted using the 
applicable tools. 
x  
 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 36 
 

 
 
 
7.0 Customer Success, optimization, satisfaction, and improvement 
Item Requirement Description 
7.1 
Customer 
success  
7.1.1 
Customer 
success 
practice (post 
migration to 
Managed 
Services) 
Partner must demonstrate that a documented customer success strategy 
exists and is executed after a migration to the managed service. This strategy 
ensures that the customer effectively adopts Google Cloud technologies and 
the partner's management services.   
 
The process begins with the collaborative development of a Customer 
Success Plan which reflects the customer’s business objectives and technical 
requirements, and guides a hand-off from the project/account team to the 
customer success team for the Adopt and Expand phases of the project.  
 
During the Adopt phase, the partner should provide additional support such as 
knowledge transfer, use-case workshops, and change-management plans to 
help the customer embrace and leverage the service. The Expand phase is 
about identifying opportunities to broaden the use of the technology, and 
propel customer value and satisfaction.  
 
Partner should also develop a Customer Ramp Plan showing each the 
adoption goals, the milestones for each workload, and the timeline to achieve 
success.  The partner should maintain a regular communication cadence to 
continuously update the Customer Ramp Plan with progress on established 
solutions and to identify new workloads in the customer's environment. 
Throughout the process, the partner should maintain regular Success Reviews 
to validate that the proper governance is in place to manage the solution.  
 
The customer success strategy implementation requires a Customer Health 
Score system to monitor subscription well-being, considering the extent of 
technology usage, critical ("golden") feature adoption, success plan adherence, 
and Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) growth. A color-coded score triggers 
call-to-actions for proactive engagement by the customer success team when 
benchmarks are missed or to optimize service usage. 
 
Additional information and example templates:  
 
● 
Partner Revenue Consumption Framework for MSPs & Resellers 
● 
Customer Success Plan example template 
● 
Customer Ramp Plan example template  
● 
Customer Quarterly Business Review example template 
 
(Links require access to the Partner Advantage portal) 
 
Evidence Required 
(All customer examples can be anonymized) 
R Met Y/N 
Provide comprehensive documentation detailing the   
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 37 
 

 
 
transition process from the account/project team to the 
customer success team. This must demonstrate a 
well-defined procedure for the Adopt and Expand phases of 
a project. It must articulate how the customer success team 
engages in facilitating knowledge transfer, conducting 
use-case workshops, and providing a detailed 
communication plan to ensure smooth customer transition 
into the technology utilization. Additionally, it should depict 
strategies for identifying opportunities to expand services, 
driving higher customer value and satisfaction. 
Demonstrate that Customer Success Plans are created for 
customers under management and show the plans for at 
least two of them.  The plans must cover the customer's 
business goals, success action plan, workstreams, account 
engagement model, learning strategy, and adoption actions 
plans. 
x  
Demonstrate that ramp plans are created for customers 
under management and show the plans for at least two of 
them. This plan must include customer workloads that will be 
ramped to Google Cloud, tracking of consumption for the 
different workloads, consumption milestones showing if the 
customer is adopting deployed technology or not, project 
timelines, deliverables, and ownership for any inflight 
deployments adding more consumption to Google Cloud. 
x  
Demonstrate that Quarterly Business Reviews (QBR) or 
Quarterly Success Reviews (QSR) are executed with strategic 
or committed customers and show example reviews for at 
least two of them. The QBR or QSR must be aligned with the 
Customer Success Plan and must include topics beyond SLA 
metrics tracking, being at least the utilization of current 
technology, new growth opportunities, achievement of 
customer business goals, and call-to-actions for the adoption 
of new workloads. 
x  
7.2 
Optimization  
7.2.1  
Optimization 
opportunities  
Partner must identify and act on opportunities for optimization of customer 
application performance, Google Cloud usage, and/or cost.  
 
Partners who show advanced capabilities in this category proactively tune 
settings in applications, move them to more cost-effective environments, or 
optimize application code; they save costs by identifying unused resources and 
right-sizing them.  The partner will also add value to the customer by helping 
them identify potential computing resource reservations and commit pricing 
levels, and by collaboratively maintaining ramp plans per workload with the 
customer.     
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide process documentation used by their personnel 
describing how opportunities for optimizing the customer's  
application performance or the costs associated with running 
them are identified and actioned. 
  
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 38 
 

 
 
Provide records of this process execution, resulting in 
implemented optimizations. 
x  
7.3  
Customer 
satisfaction 
7.3.1  
Customer 
satisfaction 
data 
Partner must solicit and capture customer feedback.  
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide evidence of customer satisfaction data collection. 
Examples could be testimonials or satisfaction surveys. 
  
7.3.2  
Customer 
satisfaction 
review  
Partner must review and analyze customer satisfaction data, and act on any 
low scores or complaints.  
 
Partners should consistently review and analyze customer satisfaction data, 
including survey results, feedback forms, and social media mentions to identify 
dissatisfied areas and develop improvement strategies. Recognizing trends 
and patterns in this data is crucial for targeted strategy development. 
Furthermore, partners must address low scores or customer complaints 
proactively by investigating and resolving issues, and ensuring effective 
communication with the customer for their satisfaction with the resolution. 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide process documentation regarding how the partner 
acts on the customer satisfaction data they collect. 
x  
Provide evidence that includes records of actions taken due 
to low score customer feedback or customer complaints. 
  
7.3.3 
Customer 
favorability 
To measure ongoing customer likelihood to recommend the MSP services, 
partners must provide the customer with the ability to rate their Managed 
Services interaction experiences. 
 
For cases where the partner has not yet implemented a system for customers 
to provide feedback, Partner Advantage offers the ability to direct customers 
to the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey.  To learn more, including how to 
request aggregated read-outs, refer to this NPS one-pager. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Demonstrate examples where the completion of customer 
experience survey was requested from customers after a 
migration or net-new deployment was executed, via a 
partner-operated system or the NPS survey. 
x  
Demonstrate examples where the completion of NPS survey 
was requested from customers after resolving customer 
support requests, via a partner-operated system, or the NPS 
survey.   
x  
7.4  
Continual 
improvement 
7.4.1  
Continual 
improvement 
methodology 
Partner must have a process in place for identifying opportunities for continual 
improvement within their practice area, through the use of Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) or other metrics.  
 
This entails regularly identifying potential service enhancements through client 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 39 
 

 
 
feedback and operational data analysis, setting SMART goals for service 
optimization, and creating actionable plans to meet these goals. MSPs help 
customers connect their business outcomes to a set of objectives in their 
cloud technologies platform, maintaining an ongoing cycle of reflection, and 
adjustment to strategies based on new opportunities or challenges, promoting 
sustained growth and continuous service improvement. 
 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide a documented continual improvement methodology, 
and evidence of metrics collection and analysis. 
  
7.4.2  
Continual 
improvement 
activity 
Partner must implement actions to drive improvements as identified by the 
continual improvement process.  
 
Partner should conduct in-depth reviews of the current service delivery, 
considering customer feedback, team performance metrics, and financial 
indicators. Evaluate feedback from key stakeholders including clients, team 
members, and Google Cloud representatives to identify improvement 
opportunities. 
 
Partners usually first improve their incident response times, client onboarding, 
or cloud cost optimization processes. While they strive to enhance specific 
Google Cloud service proficiency capabilities and expand their Google Cloud 
service offerings, they start investing in advanced automation capabilities.  
Advanced partners in this category have established partnerships for 
specialized Google Cloud services with other third-party vendors and/or 
developed proprietary Google Cloud optimization tools. 
Evidence Required R Met Y/N 
Provide records of continual improvement activities. 
 
x  
 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 40 
 

 
 
Appendix 1: Adding Affiliates and Regional Expansions 
 
Affiliated Partner 
An Affiliated Partner is an entity that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common 
control with a partner that has been authorized to participate in the Google Cloud MSP Initiative (such 
partner is referred to as the “Parent Partner”) in accordance with the terms of the MSP Initiative Program 
Guide. 
 
Nomination and Affiliated Partner MSP Initiative prerequisites 
To qualify for the Google Cloud MSP Initiative, the Parent Partner must have nominated the Affiliated 
Partner to participate in the MSP Initiative, and the Affiliated Partner must:  
■ Satisfy MSP Initiative prerequisites 
■ Receive a MSP Initiative invitation based upon prerequisites being met 
■ Complete an assessment with ISSI (third-party assessment firm)  
■ Receive a “Pass” decision on the assessment from Google Cloud MSP Initiative team 
■ Provide contact information for the nominated Affiliated Partner 
 
To qualify for the MSP Initiative, Affiliated Partners must satisfy the prerequisites outlined in the guide. 
Additionally, participating affiliates in the MSP program are collectively required to maintain a minimum 
of twelve full-time employees who possess a valid Professional Cloud Architect certification. For clarity, 
if an affiliate company directly employs three PCAs, this requirement is considered met as long as the 
total number of PCAs across all MSP-participating affiliated companies in the MSP initiative, including the 
one being evaluated to join or renew, is twelve or more. 
 
 
Regional expansion  
 
Regional expansion is the expansion of an existing partner into a new region that involves a new partner 
Authorization and encompasses a partner's Engagement Model, applicable region, and product. 
 
Partner assessment types   
 
Affiliated Partner - Full Assessment 
Affiliated Partners who maintain their own operations and support structure independent from the 
Parent Partner will be required to undergo a Full Assessment pursuant to the requirements in Sections 
1.0 through 7.0 of this document.  
 
Affiliated Partner - Partial Assessment 
Affiliated Partners with onsite support who have the same systems, tools, and processes as the Parent 
Partner, and who source their assessment, design and migration processes from the Parent Partner, will 
undergo a remote partial assessment pursuant to the requirements in Sections  2.x, 3.1.x, 5.x and 7.x of 
this document. Partners should plan to spend approximately 6-8 hours on their New-Cycle Partial 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 41 
 

 
 
Assessment, or 4-6 hours if they will undergo a Renewal Partial Assessment; see the corresponding 
sections of this checklist for expected evidence.  
 
 
At the close of the assessment, the Assessor will present a brief synopsis of the results. Opportunities 
for improvement will also be presented. If there are any open action items, the partner will be given an 
opportunity to provide written evidence of closure to the Assessor within five business days after 
completion of assessment / reassessment. After five business days have passed, the Assessor will 
forward a final report to Google Cloud. The Google Cloud MSP Initiative team will make a decision and 
inform the partner regarding admittance to the Google Cloud MSP Initiative. 
 
Regional Validation Assessment 
Regional Sales Offices of Affiliated Partners or partners with regional expansion who have no onsite 
support structure and are fully centralized with the Parent Partner’s systems, tools, and processes will 
undergo a Regional Validation Assessment. These partners may be assessed as part of the Parent 
Partner’s initial assessment or as a standalone remote assessment of approximately 1 hour. These 
partners will be expected to provide evidence including but not limited to:  
 
■ Published managed service catalog in local language related to Google Cloud (such as on 
website) 
■ Examples of support tickets for local customers of the regional office – incidents, problems, or 
escalations - Assessor will cross-check that processes and tools used to attend these support 
tickets are from the Parent Partner 
■ SLA evidence – Assessor will validate that SLAs are aligned with those from Parent Partner 
■ Service reporting – Assessor will request reports where it can be verified that the same tooling is 
in use as at the Parent Partner (monitoring, service performance, etc.) 
 
The entity being validated needs to present evidence of their local managed services offer, using the 
company overview and Google Cloud managed services web presence, following the controls 1.1.1 and 
1.3.2 of the MSP Assessment Checklist.  
 
The Assessor will also validate that the controls 2.4, 2.10 and 2.11, taken from the latest Full MSP 
Assessment conducted to the Parent Partner, are followed by the regional office who will have to 
demonstrate that the local Managed Services offer follows the same process to manage incidents, 
problems, and escalations, and that they offer the same Support SLAs and Reporting as the Parent 
Partner.  The Assessor will validate that all of these services are provided from the Parent Partner's 
central support operation and that the local/regional office doesn't have separate support operations.   
 
During the closing meeting at the end of the regional validation assessment, the Assessor will indicate 
whether sufficient evidence has been provided to demonstrate that the partner’s activities in the new 
region are consistent with the operations and support activities of the Parent Partner.  Formal 
notification of compliance or noncompliance will be provided to the Google Cloud MSP Initiative team, 
who will then communicate such notification to the nominated Affiliated Partner. In the case that the 
partner is missing evidence, the Affiliated Partner will have to schedule a new Regional Validation 
Assessment at a later date. 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 42 
 

 
 
This Regional Validation Assessment will only be used to activate regions for commercial needs related to 
currency or tax requirements. Examples of valid offices/entities who can do a Regional Validation 
Assessment include:  
 
● Same partner entity delivering / commercializing cloud services, but in a different region than the 
headquarters and will still be using the centralized MSP Operations team of the Parent Partner 
for support delivery 
● Affiliate is a new or existing sales office for the Parent Partner with no MSP support services 
on-site 
 
Google Cloud MSP Capabilities Assessment v4.2 (Sep 2025)       GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL 43 
 